hi i'm marc dopher from create fit comm
in association with zone 3 wetsuits
we're going to take you through some
clips here to prepare you for your open
water swimming track and coming up soon
often open water triathlons we'll start
with an in water begins of the race in
order to achieve an effective start to
your race stay horizontal on the surface
with your head lifted to keep your
breathing going perform a sculling
action with the hands with an ax gentle
front crawl kick with the legs as soon
as you get the command to go head down
big pull big kick and swim when fighting
take a brief glance ahead before turning
to the side and taking your breath will
be it necessary aim to limit the lift of
the head as this will cause inefficiency
in the front crawl stroke whilst
approaching the boy usual sighting
skills to judge how far away this will
be as soon as you get to it use the arm
that's closest to it in order to stay
reached out in front before performing a
single arm front crawl with the opposite
arm take a tight turn around the boy
before swimming off control turns in
open water swimming scenarios are
incredibly rare should you need to use
them this is how you would perform it
you may prefer to take the option of
touch turning for some people this will
be a far safer and quicker more
effective option drafting can be created
by swimming alongside another swimmer
draw alongside with your shoulders being
close to their hips close to that
swimmer without getting in their way in
order to take advantage of an eddy
current toe that's created from them
sometimes throughout your open water
swim you may experience you water coming
into your goggles or you need to do mr.
cuddles in order to do this as
efficiently and effectively as you can
simply turn onto your back perform a
backstroke kick lay the head back whilst
you're clearing your goggles once
replaced roll back onto your front
straight back into front core as soon as
you're out of the water remove your
goggles so you can have a better view as
to where you're going and then holding
on to the Hat pull it over your head so
you can take your goals and your hat off
whilst running to t1 continuing with
your run to t1 and do the velcro at the
top of your zip grab your lanyard and
either pull it upward or downward
whichever design your suit may have once
the zip has been undone and you'll
continue in your run to t1 grab a
shoulder and pull the arm through once
you've completed this on one side
perform exactly the same on the other
pull the top half of your suit down to
your waist so it's not to restrict your
running until you get to t1 once you've
arrived at your bike pull the rest of
the suit all the way down to your ankles
and then stand on each leg of the suit
and pull your leg out away from it
from all of us here at create fit in
zone three we hope these clips have
helped and have a great swing